# ABOUT

**The most important classes in this library are the EZFORM and EZFORMElement.
These two classes combined can be used to quickly create and attach forms
with labels, fields, and buttons.**

**Both classes are easily extensible which is a major focus of this library.
Examples of using and extending the classes are provided in git project as
well as the README.**

The process for adding an ezform includes:

1. Getting an instance of the ViewGroup that you want to attach the form to. This ViewGroup can be the root view itself.
2. Instantiating an EZForm object.
3. Instantiating the EZFormElement objects that you want. These objects currently include labels, fields, and views.
4. Attaching the EZFormElement objects to the EZForm object. (perhaps I should make a way to remove this step)
5. Finally, add the view generated by the EZForm class to the ViewGroup that you attained in step 1.

But if you extend the ezform class the process includes:

1. Getting an instance of the ViewGroup that you want to attach the form to. This ViewGroup can be the root view itself.
2. Instantiating your custom EZForm object.
2. Add the view generated by the EZForm class to the ViewGroup that you attained in step 1.

# V1
## Example of Most Simple Use (Inside of OnCreate method of Activity Class)
		/*
		 * 
		 *  Using a standard EZForm object.
		 *  
		 */
		
		// Insantiate ezform object.
		EZForm ezform = new EZForm(this);
		
		// Create the elements you want.
		EZFormElement label1 = new EZFormElement(EZFormElement.ELEMENT_TYPE_LABEL, "My 1st label:", this);
		EZFormElement field1 = new EZFormElement(EZFormElement.ELEMENT_TYPE_FIELD, null, this);
		EZFormElement button1 = new EZFormElement(EZFormElement.ELEMENT_TYPE_BUTTON, "My 1st button:", this);

		// Attach the form elements to the form (ORDER MATTERS!).
		ezform.addFormElement(label1);
		ezform.addFormElement(field1);
		ezform.addFormElement(button1);
		
		// Get the viewgroup from the current layout that you want to attach the form to.
		// In this example we use the root of the view itself.
		ViewGroup layout = (ViewGroup) findViewById(android.R.id.content);
		
		// Append the form to the of your choice view.
		layout.addView(ezform.createForm());
		
## Responding to Form Submission
		/*
		 * 
		 *  Responding to form submission
		 *  
		 */

		// Get the view from the element.
		View btnView = button1.getView();
		
		// Assign the OnClickListener.
		btnView.setOnClickListener(new EZFormClickListener(ezform, this) {

			@Override
			public void onClick(View v) {
				
				List<String> inputs = mParentForm.getInputs();
				for(int i = 0; i < inputs.size(); i++) {
				    Log.d("TEST", inputs.get(i));	
				}
				
				Intent intent = new Intent(mContext, OtherActivity.class);
				startActivity(intent);
				
			}
			
		});
		
## Extending the EZFormClass (1 of 2)
 * To create a custom form extend the EZForm class.
 * Create the elements you want to add to your form (fields, buttons, labels).
 * You can use EZFormElement.getView() to get the views and edit them.
 * Use EZForm.getInputs() to retrieve a list of strings from the fields of this form.
		public class FoodFormExample extends EZForm {
		
			@SuppressLint("NewApi")
			public FoodFormExample(Context context) {
				super(context);
				
				// Create a label.
				EZFormElement label = new EZFormElement(EZFormElement.ELEMENT_TYPE_LABEL, "Food Name:", context);
				
				// Get the labels view and edit it.
				TextView labelView = (TextView) label.getView();
				labelView.setTextAppearance(context, R.style.TextAppearance_Large);
				
				// Create a button.
				EZFormElement submit = new EZFormElement(EZFormElement.ELEMENT_TYPE_BUTTON, "SUBMIT", context);
				
				// Add elements to the form. Order matters!
				addFormElement(label);
				addFormElement(EZFormElement.ELEMENT_TYPE_FIELD, "");
				addFormElement(EZFormElement.ELEMENT_TYPE_LABEL, "Calories (g):");
				addFormElement(EZFormElement.ELEMENT_TYPE_FIELD, "");
				
				submit.getView().setOnClickListener(new EZFormClickListener(this, context) { 
					@Override
					public void onClick(View v) {
						
						// THIS TINY LITTLE SUBTLE LINE IS VBRY IMPORTANT!
						// ITS WHERE THE INPUT COMES FROM!
						List<String> inputs = getInputs();
						
						for(int i = 0; i < inputs.size(); i++) {
						    Log.d("TEST", inputs.get(i));	
						}
						
						// Since getContext() works im not sure if I should make another constructor
						// where you do not pass in the context.
						Intent intent = new Intent(getContext(), OtherActivity.class);
						getContext().startActivity(intent);
					}
				});
				
				addFormElement(submit);
		
			}
		
		}

## Extending the EZFormClass (2 of 2) (Inside of OnCreate method of Activity Class)
		ViewGroup layout = (ViewGroup) findViewById(android.R.id.content);
		FoodFormExample ff = new FoodFormExample(this);
		layout.addView(ff.createForm());

## Other Stuff
### Shorthand for making specific elements.

* EZFormElement label = new EZFormElement(EZFormElement.ELEMENT_TYPE_LABEL, "Food Name:", context);

becomes

* EZFormElement label = new EZFormLabel("Food Name:", context);
	
Same goes for buttons and fields:
* new EZFormButton("Im a button!", context);
* new EZFormField("Field:", context);
	
		
		
